## An Excessively Brief History of Philosophy

Change and permanence; one and the many. These two contrasts define much of the history of Western philosophy. How can something change and yet remain itself? What does it mean for one thing to be the same as something else?

One strand of Greek philosophy thought that all change is illusory because change is impossible. The philosopher Zeno came up with several apparent paradoxes to "prove" that change is impossible. The most famous of these is the paradox of Achilles and the tortoise: Achilles and the tortoise will engage in a race. Since Achilles is much faster than the tortoise, he gives the tortoise a head start. Achilles will start at point A, and the tortoise will start at point B, closer to the finish line. By the time Achilles reaches point B, the tortoise has advanced to point C; when Achilles is at point C, the turtle has advanced to point D; and so on; and so (it seems) that no matter how close Achilles gets, he can never pass the tortoise.

The opposing strand of philosophy held that *everything* is in change. "Everything changes and nothing stands still," said the philosopher Heraclitus[^Quoted by Plato, *Cratylus*, 402a.], or, more memorably, "You could not step twice into the same river."[^Ibid.] In modern terms, we not that nothing is precisely the same over time; rocks erode, water flows, plants and animals come into being, grow, and die. What does it mean for something to be the same thing even after such changes?

The problem of the one and the many asks how it is that there can be many instances of one thing. How is it that there can be multiple things, all of which we call "human beings"? What makes them (us!) the same thing? How is it that we retain our individuality? Some philosophers argued that multiplicity (many-ness) is also an illusion.

Plato's views on these queestion are undoubtedly the most influential over time, so it's worth taking a deeper look at his approach.

We start by considering triangles, which have been the stock example for centuries. Imagine a triangle. No, seriously, do it. That triangle in your imagination has certain properties. Its lines are a certain color (black?); its angles are of certain sizes (are you imagining a right triangle? scalene? insoceles?) and therefore so are its angles.
